# tfuncâ€”a library *for* functional programming in C++17

This is a personal garage to experiment with, benchmark and develop a C++17
library for functional programming. I'm not interested in writing Haskell code
with C++ spelling. Rather, I'm exploring functional idioms and patterns that can
be used to make *better* C++ code. As Scott Mayers puts it, C++ is suited for
*demanding systems* applications, and that's certainly what I use it for. I
don't think removing all concepts of the bare metal architecture is going to
make for good systems code. So, I want to understand how I can maintain a
relationship with the bare metal, while using functional programming to make
code safer and more generic.

Development efforts will be largely driven by unit tests targeting semantic and
compositional laws. Unit testing will be facilitated by Phil Nash's
[Catch](https://github.com/philsquared/Catch) framework. That said, I'm not sure
TDD is called for here, because the semantics of these things are so well
developed, that what I really need tests for is to catch implementation errors.

In the earliest stages, basic facilities for currying, function composition and
algebraic data structures will be worked out. The `bench` folder will be a
shambolic mess of different implementations, competing under Google's
[benchmarking library](https://github.com/google/benchmark). The simplest, but
best performing of these will be copied into library sources in `/include` and
`/src`.

While writing this library, Searched for as much functional C++ code as I could
get my hands on, and reviewed it. The benchmark `.hpp` files in `bench` will
contain the best examples I have found, along with URLs/citations for original
sources.

After completing some basics, I'm going to focus on getting the
passing/returning semantics right in terms of forwarding/moving/copying. This is
going to require a bit of extra attention in the case of lambdas. (see [here](
https://vittorioromeo.info/index/blog/capturing_perfectly_forwarded_objects_in_lambdas.html).)

Next, monads will be written for lists, optionals, read/writer and maybe IO.
Implementations of those will be benchmarked and tested as well.

In the final stages, I want to investigate implementations for the continuation
monad. Then I want to integrate with a functional reactive programming library,
such as Sodium or SFRP. At that point, this project will become part of a a
signals and control systems software framework that is part of my PhD project.
